[docs] MCP access (#55775)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/reference/agent-services/mcp-access.mdx

---
title: MCP Access Reference
description: Configuration and CLI reference for Teleport MCP access.
---

This guide describes interfaces and options for interacting with the Teleport
Application Service for MCP access, including the static configuration file for
the `teleport` binary, and `tsh mcp` commands.

## Configuration

(!docs/pages/includes/backup-warning.mdx!)

The following snippet shows the full YAML configuration of an Application Service
appearing in the `teleport.yaml` configuration file:

```yaml
app_service:
  # Enables application proxy service.
  enabled: true
  # Enables the builtin Teleport demo MCP server that shows current user and
  # session information. Wildcard must be allowed for "app_labels" by your role
  # to access this MCP server.
  mcp_demo_server: true
  # This section contains definitions of all applications proxied by this
  # service. It can contain multiple items.
  apps:
  # Name of the application. Used for identification purposes.
  - name: "mcp-everything"
    # Free-form application description.

>     description: "Example everything MCP server"

Reviewer: Project name, should be capitalised: https://mcp.so/server/server-everything

```suggestion
    description: "Example Everything MCP server"
```

    # Static labels to assign to the app. Used in RBAC.
    labels:
      env: "prod"
    # Contains MCP server-related configurations.
    mcp:
      # Command to launch stdio-based MCP servers.
      command: "docker"
      # Args to execute with the command.
      args: ["run", "-i", "--rm", "mcp/everything"]
      # Name of the host user account under which the command will be
      # executed. Required for stdio-based MCP servers.

>       run_as_host_user: "docker"

Reviewer 2: Similar to my question above, can we also include an example of the MCP server yaml resource in the reference you would create with tctl/API.

# Search MCP servers with labels and add to the specified JSON file
$ tsh mcp config --labels env=dev --client-config=my-config.json`
```

| Flag | Description |
| - | - |
| `--all` | Select all MCP servers. Mutually exclusive with `--labels` or `--query`.|
| `--labels`  | List of comma separated labels to filter by labels (e.g. key1=value1,key2=value2).|
| `--query`  | Query by predicate language enclosed in single quotes. (e.g. `--query='labels["key1"] == "value1" && labels["key2"] != "value2"')`. |
| `--client-config` | If specified, update the specified client config. `claude` for default Claude Desktop config, or specify a JSON file path. Can also be set with environment variable `TELEPORT_MCP_CLIENT_CONFIG`.",
| `--json-format` |	Format the JSON file (`pretty`, `compact`, `auto`, `none`). `auto` saves in compact if the file is already compact, otherwise pretty. Can also be set with environment variable `TELEPORT_MCP_CONFIG_JSON_FORMAT`. Default is `auto`.",

### tsh mcp connect

Used by AI tools such as Claude Desktop to connect to an MCP server via
Teleport.

<Admonition type="tip">
In most cases, you do not to craft or run `tsh mcp connect`. Instead, use

> `tsh mcp config` to print sample configurations or update your AI tools

Reviewer: Perhaps start with suggestion followed by explanation?

```suggestion
<Admonition type="tip">
`tsh mcp config` can print sample configuration or update your AI tools
directly.  This frees you from manually crafting the `tsh mcp connect` command.
</Admonition>
```
